# More UNIX scripting
The following syntax is of great use for UNIX_PROJECT_4.

## String splitting 
String splitting makes use of 2 commands. First of all you have to tell bash what the separator will be, by default this is a space `" "` . You can specify this using `IFS="_"` where the underscore is an example separator. However, IFS alone will not split your string.
  - Split a string to an array using `read -r -a ARRAY <<< "$STRING"` where `STRING` is your variable and `ARRAY` is a newly created variable holding your array.
  - Split a string to prespecified variables using `read -r VARIABLE_1 VARIABLE_2 <<< "$STRING"` where `STRING` is your variable and `VARIABLE_1` and `VARIABLE_@` are two newly created variables holding the first and second element of the split. (Add more variables accordingly.)
```sh
EXAMPLE="some_kind_of_assignmemt"
IFS="_" # or any other string (this is your seperator)
read -r -a ARRAY <<< "$EXAMPLE" # save to an array
read -r -a SOME KIND OF ASSIGNMENT <<< "$EXAMPLE" # save to multple variables, if you have less variables than the total amount of slices, they well be appended to your last variable.
```

## String splicing
String splicing allows you to remove x from the beginning or y from the end.
- Splice from the beginning using `${VARIABKE:x}`
- Splice from the end uusing `${VARIABLE::-y}` 

## Parameter expansions 
Parameter expansions allow you to replace and remove from strings.

- Remove a substring from a string starting from the __end__ `%`
  - Using one `%` will remove one occurance.
  - Using two `%%` will remove all occurances.
```sh
STRING="EXAMPLESTR"
SUBSTRING="STR"
echo "${STRING%SUBSTRING}" # rather useful for say, removing a file extension.
```
- Remove a substring from a string starting from the __beginning__ `#`
  - Using one `#` will remove one occurance.
  - Using two `##` will remove all occurances.
```sh
STRING="assignement_UA_{VAK}_{TITEL}_{DEADLINE}"
SUBSTRING="assignment_UA_"
echo "${STRING#SUBSTRING}" # rather useful for say, removing a part of an archive name.
```
- Replace a part of a string with a new string `/`.
  - Using one `/` will remove one occurance.
  - Using two `//` will remove all occurances.
```sh
STRING="EXAMPLE STRING AWESOME"
echo "${STRING/ /_}" # rather useful for say, replacing spaces in a folder/file name with an underscore.
echo "${STRING// /_}" # (replace all)
```