# Commandos
## Options
- `>` Redirects output stream to new location (appended after). Always does a complete overwrite.
- `>>` Redirects ouput stream to new location (appended after). Appends to file.
- `<` Redirects file stream to output stream. 

## Subheader
- `cd [path]` Change directory allows you to change directories
  - `cd ..` Go to parent directory (up one level)
  - `cd` or `cd ~` Will return you back to your personal home directory.
  - `cd -Path [C:]` Switch disks `Set-Location -Path [C:]`
- `find .` Lists all directories and their children in CWD
  - `find ./ -name 'name'` Find concents specified name.
  - `find ./ -name 'name*'` wildcards will match any characters the follow.
    - `wo*` and `wor*` would both list `word`
  - `find ./ -type d` Find contens of specified type
- `ls` List Directory shows you the contents of your current directory.
  - `ls /` Takes a path and will list it's contents.
  - `ls -l /` Shows path contents AND file permissions.
  - `ls > [path]` Does not write to terminal, but writes to specifield file.
- `history` To see command history.
- `pwd` Absolute path to current working directory.
- `man [ls]` Lists command instructions
  - To exit the `man` menu, press `q`
- `mkdir [path]` Make a new directory in current location
- `rmdir [path]` Remove directory (by name)
- `touch [name].[extension]` Create file with extension.
- `tar -xvzf Names.tgz` Extract archive.
- `cat [path]` Logs all file contents to terminal.
- `head [path]` Logs first 10 lines of file to terminal.
  - `head -n [x] [path]` Log x first lines of file to terminal.
- `tail` SEE HEAD ^
- `grep [query] [path]` Search for occurances of `query` in the specified file.
- `wc [path]` Word Count command shows lines, words and bytes respectively.
  - `wc -c`, `wc -m`, `wc -l`, `wc -w` all show bytes, chars, lines and words respectively.
- `cp [path] [new_path]` Copy file to new path.
- `rm [path]` Remove file at path.
- `mv [path] [new_path]` Move file to new path. Can be used to rename a file.
- `echo '[string]' > [path]` Place contents into file.
- `sort [path]` Prints sorted file contents to console.
  - `sort -o [path] [new_path]` To sort to a (new) file.
- `wget [url]` Fetch data from web.

## Processen
- `kill [PID]` Stop a process.
- `pkill [name]` Kill a process by name.
- `sleep [time]` Sleep the current process for the provided time (in seconds).
  - `sleep [time] &` Run sleep command in background, returns process ID (`PID`)
- `top` nad `htop` can be used to list processes.
